# Lake Chad Research

This research was conducted under department of Statistics and Probability in Michigan State University and led by Dr.Frederi Viens.

This is a statistical research on environmental, agricultural, and economic impacts for Lake Chad located in North Africa.

All analysis were implemented using R.


#### Goal:

The broader goals include build predictive models of the lake's hydrology based on local climate and agricultural production levels, and on long-term evolutions of the global climate.

#### Data:

We investigate these variables' effects on the total volume of water in the northern section of Lake Chad.
Our period spans 1995-2010. Our crops data for the region comes from publicly available data from the United Nation’s Food and Agricultural Organization.
The quality of this data is presumably low, and is difficult to assess. Therefore, the water usage data was generated by multiplying this production data by published water footprint values.

#### Methodology:

We investigate these questions using Bayesian multiple linear regression and Gibbs Sampler in R.

#### Results:

Our analysis model rejected the notion that global climate change is causing the lake to shrink, and rejected that the irrigated cropping activities have any influence.

In the ecosystem services analysis, we found an association between the value of livestock traded on local markets, and the difference in lake coverage from the wet season to the dry season, indicating that recessional pastoralism is of great economic importance to the lake’s agrarian societies.
